( thunder rumbling )
( branch snaps )
♪ Hush, hush ♪
♪ There's snakes
in the garden ♪
♪ Soul for sale ♪
♪ Blood on the rise ♪
♪ Hush, hush ♪
♪ I know there will
come a day ♪
♪ As they're hiding
in the cover of night ♪
- ♪ I can't wait anymore ♪
- ♪ Soul for sale ♪
♪ I can't wait anymore ♪
♪ Hush, hush. ♪
( panting )
( groans )
( groaning )
( panting )
I am the resurrection
and the life.
Whoever believes in me, even though
he should die, shall come to life.
And whoever is alive and
believes in me shall never die.
Thank you.
( sobbing )
Peggy:
"My dear Major André,
I hope this letter
finds you well.
This last night, we had the occasion
to celebrate Becky Redman's birthday.
We drank to your health
and to our dear Becky Franks
with whom we hope
you will share this letter."
How will he know how to parse
through all this nonsense?
Because I name you a man
of exceptional character.
Name me?
In the letter?
How else will he know
with whom he's dealing?
I don't know.
Some... some manner of code.
Something which
doesn't expose me.
This is the code, darling.
The words exceptional
and character
will signal to André that this is
more than nonsense, as you say.
How much of this have you
discussed with him beforehand?
Just this.
He said after the initial overture,
instructions would follow.
Read it.
"As for Philadelphia,
we are quite well.
The Continental officers here
acquit themselves with great honor.
One among them is a man
of exceptional character.
His name is General
Benedict Arnold.
And as I think you may
have heard from Becky,
he and I are engaged
to be married.
What you may not have heard
is that my older sister Betsy
is now also engaged
and will be married
this November,
which has allowed General Arnold and
I to set a date for our own wedding.
We will be married
the first of March.
Your fond correspondent,
Peggy Shippen."
March.
Sir, Philadelphia?
Yes, a date has been set
for her wedding.
March.
I can't write her directly
about my feelings,
so I need you to convey
my words personally.
Please.
Tell her that she never
leaves my thoughts
and that I cling to the hope
that someday soon
we shall be reunited.
She'll understand my meaning.
If that's what
you want me to do, sir.
( door opens, closes )
( birds chirping )
- Hewlett:  Yes?
- Edmund, it's me.
Madame.
( chuckles )
Edmund.
Oh, to hell with propriety.
I'm too happy.
And I know that
you would be married
in a church rather than
here at Whitehall,
but I thought to avoid speculation
because of the gossip.
No, no, you're right.
This is about us, not them.
Yes, yes, I know.
I just...
Edmund, after the wedding,
I was wondering if we
could go to New York.
To New York?
Why?
Just thought it might be
nice to be away from here,
from them,
for even a little while.
Perhaps we can go
to York City at some point,
but for now we must see how
our other plan has fared.
- ( door opens )
- Thomas:  Mama!
- Mary:  Thomas!
- And perhaps news of that has just arrived.
Mary: There you are.
Let me look at you.
( sighs )
- Been helping build the house, huh?
- Mama missed you.
- Abe: You missed Mama?
- Mary:  I've missed you.
- Abe: Yeah, he missed Mama.
- Abraham.
Mary: Come on, I'll get
you something to eat.
Are you hungry?
- Well? Any word?
- No, no.
- I had hoped that you'd come bearing glad tidings
- No.
Still, I suppose it's fortunate
that we had this chance to talk.
There's another matter
which we need to discuss.
If you mean your wedding,
I've heard the news.
But since it seems
we'll both soon be gone,
I don't see what's
left to discuss.
We are not going to Scotland.
You're not?
Now that Anna
has obtained a divorce,
we're going to stay right here.
However, the only condition
Selah Strong gives
is that she admits
to adultery with you.
Wait, Selah requested this?
He did.
And as a gentleman,
I thought it only fitting
that you should hear it
before it becomes public.
Oh, well,
thank you very much
for your concern.
( groans )
I wouldn't try that.
Unless you want to go back
to bleeding to death.
I already took out the bullet,
sewed you up as best I could.
Thank you.
Where is your husband?
Out selling our crop.
You want to thank me,
tell me who you are
and how that bullet got
in you in the first place.
As you may have heard,
there's a war on.
Got skinners and cowboys as well as
soldiers on both sides, so which are you?
I...
my name is Benjamin.
Benjamin Brewster.
And I'm not on any side.
Then how'd you end up here
bleeding in the night?
Where is here?
You don't know where you are?
I got hit on the head
pretty hard.
Well, you remember that
and you remember your name,
so maybe you can
remember the rest
with some encouraging.
I...
I'm a traveling minister.
I... I go wherever
the Lord calls me
to do His work.
( gunshot )
I... I met trouble on the
road in New Jersey.
- Gamble's voice: No need to move.
- Brigands.
You're fine there.
Ben: Though which side
they're on, I can't say.
The last thing I remember
is a shot.
( gunshot )
And then my horse bolting.
I've no idea how far he
carried me before I fell off
or how far I walked
before I saw your light.
I reckon the Lord was guiding
me to another savior.
I owe you my life.
This fell out of your pocket.
I'd imagine you'd like
it back, Reverend.
You're in Franklin Township.
New Jersey?
My name's Sarah.
Sarah Livingston.
I'm very pleased
to meet you, Sarah.
Our quarry's name
is Benjamin Tallmadge.
He's wounded and he's alone.
Now, I hear you boys
are good at hunting.
If you two can help me
recapture him,
I can guarantee there'll be
some coin in it for you.
- Yeah, for king and country.
- Yeah, sounds good to me.
With the rain, he would
have sought shelter.
Way it is around here, he can't
risk knocking on many doors
not knowing if it's
friend or foe behind them.
( sighs ) Then I suppose we'll
knock on every door ourselves
till we find him.
- ( knock on door )
- Richard:  Who is it?
Abe:
Your grandson.
To what do I owe this pleasure?
He asked to see you.
And you indulged him.
How kind.
Go on, one hug. Then we've
got to go, all right?
So you thought you'd stop by
and torture your father, huh?
- Twist the knife?
- As far as I'm concerned, I don't have a father.
Then why are you here?
To discuss a matter that might
interest the magistrate.
( birds chirping )
( fire crackling )
Mm, that smells good.
Thought it would be a shame
if you survived your wounds
only to die of starvation.
( groans )
Whose clothes are these?
Your old ones
are sodden with blood.
You sure your husband
won't mind?
Not at all.
Here.
Here, let me help you.
All right.
Here, drink.
Bless, O Lord,
this food to our use
and us to thy service
and keep us ever mindful
of the needs of others.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.
Do you mind my asking
you a question?
Go ahead.
Well, when you, um... when
you changed my clothes,
I... I'm guessing
that you had to...
I raised two brothers
not to mention a husband.
You raised your husband?
All men need some raising.
Else they'll stay boys forever.
( utensils clatter )
Sarah, what's wrong?
Nothing.
It's just...
I haven't been
telling you the truth.
My husband,
the night I found you
was the same night he died
a year ago.
That's why I laid out
the second plate.
I...
I wanted to feel his presence.
- Do you mind my ask...
- Shot by thieves.
Just like you were.
He lived a few hours,
but a doctor was too far away.
He died in my arms.
So when you found me on
that night of all nights,
I thought...
well, I thought that maybe you
were guided here for a reason.
That if I could save you,
then it would...
( distant dog barking )
Peggy's voice:
And who is this?
Major John André
at your service, ladies.
What service are you
offering, Major?
Why, a dance, of course.
Peggy's voice: Don't presume
you know what it is to be me.
Peggy's voice: I thought we
were going to be together.
I need you to remain here
to befriend Arnold
and make an introduction to me.
( chatter )
Philomena:
Good evening, gentlemen.
Is this seat taken?
I saw the playbill
for your new production.
I'm pleased your theatrical
career has blossomed.
I've missed you, John.
When I heard you'd be returning to New
York, I couldn't wait to see you.
But it seems a different man
has returned in your place.
Did something happen
in Philadelphia?
Oh, just a war.
And an unfortunate exodus.
Not something, someone.
( exhales )
Imagine that.
A woman stealing Major John
André's well-guarded heart.
There is a cure
for that sort of
melancholy, you know.
Excuse me.
Something stronger, I think.
Feel free to join me.
I think I will
stick to my coffee.
I wish I had your forbearance.
I have a weakness or two.
I hope none of them are women.
( knocks on door )
Ah, look who's here.
Have you come for a cup of sugar
or do you need me
to give away the bride?
May I come in?
Just don't wake him.
Had a hard enough day as it is.
I was planning on telling you.
When?
- After the wedding?
- I couldn't get away.
Even now I'm supposed to be asking
if you've heard word on the ambush.
And instead of that,
you're doing what?
- Making a final appeal.
- For Hewlett?
You've already done that twice.
I can control him, Abe,
as his wife.
Steer him away from you.
You can steer him?
Like a horse?
No, you know what I mean.
He loves me.
And his experience
with women is limited.
Well, your charms are considerable,
I'll grant you that.
But I doubt it can turn
his coat from red to blue
no matter how hard
you work at it.
There's no need to be so coarse.
- And I'm not just doing this for him.
- No?
If you murder that man, you'll be
killing a part of yourself as well.
Please, this isn't
about my soul.
And it's not about the ring,
either, so don't hide behind that.
All right,
then what is it about?
- It's jealousy.
- ( scoffs )
Pure and simple.
You just can't stand the
thought of me marrying him.
No, no, I can't stand the thought of you
marrying someone that you don't love
because you think
it's the right thing to do.
Like you did?
Look, now I am doing
this for you.
Anna, I can't watch you sacrifice
your future just to save the enemy.
He's not the enemy.
He may be on the other side,
but he was born to that.
It doesn't matter 'cause
you're not marrying him!
It's not your decision to make.
But I have.
But you... what are
you talking about?
I shared my suspicions
with my father
that your divorce will not
stand up to scrutiny.
Now, he's a cowardly shit,
but he's a good judge.
He can spot a forgery
from a mile away.
Call off the wedding now
before you're accused
of a crime.
You've already done this?
It's for your own good.
And, yes, it's for
the good of the ring.
No, it's to deny me
even a chance at happiness.
Admit it.
If you have a shred
of honesty left in you,
admit it.
( sighs )
( Ben whimpers )
( whimpering )
( thunder rumbling )
( Philomena sighs )
As I said before, John.
I have missed you.
( chuckles )
Melancholy already?
I hate to think my cure
no longer works.
What is it?
I was wondering,
if it doesn't interfere
with your stage work,
if you wouldn't
do something for me.
Will this involve screwing
another rebel general?
No.
Can you style
your hair like this?
Exactly like this?
Not for some general.
For me.
A high roll.
Looks expensive.
Don't you worry.
I'll pay.
( door closes )
He wishes to see you
immediately.
Arnold: Troop deployments
and movements.
Locations of gunpowder.
Location of Washington's camp.
These are requests
for intelligence.
I'm offering to lead the
royal forces to victory
and he treats me
like a common spy.
He must know of your
reputation on the battlefield.
Surely he wouldn't
seek to insult you.
- Monk.
- Beg your pardon?
The code name that he's chosen for me.
The insult couldn't be plainer.
Monk?
How is that an insult?
George Monk was a general
under Cromwell
who turned against Parliament in
order to restore the monarchy.
I'm not betraying Congress.
I'm offering to lead an army
against theirs in open battle.
Benedict.
How did you know exactly
where to find his reply?
Concealed in the binding.
I went over the book twice
before you arrived,
but you were able
to find it right away.
He told me.
André did before he left.
At the time, it seemed
a silly business,
but now I'm glad he
insisted on explaining it.
Really? Why?
Because his methods will be
protecting the man I love.
You're a brave man, Benedict.
Why don't you admit what's
really bothering you?
You are worried about
betraying your country.
I only told you about André
because it seemed clear
that your country
has betrayed you.
- It's not that simple.
- It seems so to me.
Why do you owe them
your loyalty?
It's what I owe myself.
My honor is the one thing that I've
carried through this war intact
- and I intend to preserve it.
- Then tell that to André.
Tell him who you are.
And what you wish to be called.
Gustavus.
Gustavus Vasa,
the general who led Sweden
to independence from Denmark
and at great personal risk
to himself.
And I have
some demands of my own
including proper compensation.
- I'm not some bloody volunteer.
- Of course not.
Still, rather than simply countering
their demands with your own,
perhaps it might be wiser
to sweeten the pie.
Sweeten the pie?
If only as a token
of your good faith.
Look, I suppose I could tell him
about this currency business.
What currency business?
Washington told me that
the Continental dollar
has become so devalued
that he...
he worries about being able
to pay for another campaign.
Perfect.
( birds chirping )
It's freezing in here.
I'll tend to the hearth.
Are you well enough to travel?
Yes, I suppose so.
Then I'll make some breakfast.
You can be on your way.
Sarah...
Sarah, what's wrong?
Sarah, listen.
What... what happened
last night...
Last night happened
because I was lonely.
Because a year ago
my husband died
and I wanted a man in my bed.
No, this was not just you.
Sarah, I wanted it as well.
What about your mission?
Your vow to keep
the Lord's path?
What if...
what if I told you
that wasn't my mission?
What are you saying?
I'm not a minister.
- My father was.
- You lied to me.
Why?
I just... I wasn't sure
that I could trust you.
Just as you weren't sure
that you could trust me.
Who are you?
Sarah.
My...
my name is Benjamin, all right?
Benjamin Tallmadge.
And I'm an officer
in the Continental Army.
- You're a rebel.
- Aye.
I was out on a scouting
mission when I was captured.
I escaped, but the man
that I escaped from
is no doubt hunting me
right now, maybe with others.
And you come to my house?
Listen to me. I won't let
anything happen to you.
I want you to come with me.
I can protect you.
I don't need your protection!
I need protection from you.
And from men like you.
Damn rebels,
haven't you taken enough?
- You're a Tory.
- And you're a traitor.
A traitor?
( scoffs )
A traitor to whom?
I am loyal to my country.
To our country.
To America.
Your country killed my husband.
Your husband?
No. No, you said
thieves killed him.
Thieves, soldiers, Continental
militia, they're all the same.
They came here last winter demanding
he sell our crops at a loss.
He refused, so they shot him.
No, those weren't Patriots, Sarah.
Those were brigands.
They were acting under orders.
- Orders? Whose orders?
- General Washington's.
That's impossible.
Last winter...
You what?
Last winter we were in a
forage war with the British.
The men were starving and
Washington issued orders...
to obtain supplies...
at all costs.
No, Sarah. Sarah.
So what will you do with me?
What you already did, only
now at the point of a gun?
- Sarah...
- ( hoofbeats, horse neighing )
Seems the Lord's judgment has
caught up with you, Reverend.
- ( hammer clicks )
- Where's your spare powder?
- Barn.
- ( knocking )
Guess you'll have to make do.
- Who is it?
- Lieutenant Gamble, ma'am.
Of the Royal Army.
May we come in, ma'am?
You're not in uniform,
Lieutenant.
I'm searching for a rebel spy.
A man like that, you don't
want him to see you coming.
He's already killed a loyal
minister in cold blood.
- ( door closes )
- A minister?
Have you seen or heard of
any strangers hereabouts?
Possibly one
with a gunshot injury.
I'm afraid not, Lieutenant.
Though if you find this man,
I hope you make him suffer
for his crimes and for the rebel
filth that killed my husband.
She's telling the truth, sir.
They killed her husband, William,
all right. Stole his crop.
A year ago, weren't it, Sarah?
My condolences.
I'd keep your door latched
and a musket handy
if you've got one.
Thank you, Lieutenant.
( horses whinny,
hoofbeats departing )
I never want to see
your face again.
( door opens, closes )
"She's Like the Swallow" playing
♪ She's like the swallow ♪
♪ That flies so high ♪
♪ She's like the river ♪
♪ That never runs dry ♪
♪ She's like
the sunshine ♪
♪ On the lee shore ♪
♪ She loves her love ♪
♪ But she'll love
no more ♪
♪ 'Twas down
in the meadow ♪
♪ This fair maid bent ♪
♪ A-picking the primrose ♪
♪ Just as she went ♪
♪ The more she picked ♪
♪ And the more
she pulled ♪
♪ Until she gathered ♪
♪ Her apron full... ♪
...in holy matrimony.
( continues indistinctly )
- ( music continues )
- ( minister's voice echoes )
Minister:
If any man can show
why they may not be
lawfully joined together,
then let him now speak
or forever hold his peace.
I object.
- ( crowd murmuring )
- What?
As a friend I've tried
to hold my tongue,
but as a magistrate I can no longer
allow this marriage to proceed.
No, no, Richard, you've
gone too far this time.
Captain, take this man and put
him in the bloody stockades.
Hear me out and you may wish to
put your bride there instead.
The divorce papers she
submitted from Connecticut
are false.
She forged the signatures
and I have taxation records
from Selah Strong to prove it.
Please, you are welcome
to examine them.
So, if we let this
marriage proceed now,
the only result will be the sin
and the crime of bigamy.
Do you deny it,
Mrs. Strong?
It is a forgery.
( crowd murmuring )
And he made me do it.
What?
I have no home, no husband,
and he promised
to take care of me.
He convinced me to lie
and said no one would notice.
Is that a fact?
Major Hewlett, is this true?
- Yes.
- ( crowd gasps )
Forgive me.
Shakespeare's sonnets.
He used to read them to me.
Let him know that when
he holds this book,
he'll be holding my heart.
Does John still love me?
I can't remember all
his fine words, ma'am,
but you're all he thinks about.
Thank you, Abigail.
I'm so glad I found you.
All my theater friends say you are
an expert in the Philadelphia style.
I did all the society ladies
before I was expelled
from that Eden
without so much as a fig
leaf to cover my shame.
( laughs )
Ah, here it is.
Can you style me
exactly like this?
And send the bill to
Major John André, Mr...
All my friends call me Freddy.
And, yes.
I can do that style from memory.
Your new orders.
Details of your duties as
commander of the garrison.
Commander?
New York may assign a new man,
but since you have already held
the post when I was a prisoner,
I would imagine
they'll let you keep it.
It's not exactly
a coveted position.
But, sir...
I have written
to General Clinton
informing him of my resignation
and my request to be
discharged back to England.
I am done with
the colonies, Wakefield.
I do not understand them
and perhaps never will.
But I do know that I have
nothing left to stay for.
I had hoped to embrace
this new world,
but it seems the romance,
as always,
was one-sided.
Anna's voice:
"Dear Abraham,
It appears you now have
all that you want or need,
a clear path to continue
your work for Washington.
I, however, have lost
everything else.
I have no home, no husband,
no man to love or to love me...
no reason to stay in this place
I've known all my life.
I can at least tell myself
that I've saved a decent man
from being the next casualty
of your mission,
though at the cost
of his hope and happiness.
You drove me
to befriend him, Abraham.
And when I did,
you made me pay for it.
And for that, I'm not sure
I can ever forgive you.
( crying )
"In some ways, I fear the man
I once gave my heart to
is gone for good.
Maybe one day love,
even if now curdled
into bitterness and jealousy,
will find you again.
And if it does,
then perhaps there is
still a hope
that this war that has already
cost us so much...
will not have
cost us everything."
( theme music playing )